# OpenGD77
Firmware for DMR transceivers using the NXP MK22 MCU, AT1846S RF chip and HR-C6000 DMR chipset. This includes the Radioddiy GD-77, Radioddity GD-77s, Baofeng DM-1801 and Baofeng RD-5R.

This repo began as a fork of rogerclarkmelborune/OpenGD77, which has since been deleted. It contains the latest known publicly-released code.

# Project status
This repo has been established to maintain the code until a clear direction for the OpenGD77 project is re-established. PRs are welcome.

Current priorities include testing the firmware from this build and reworking how the CODEC portions of the original binary are incorporated into the firmware. Until this is addressed, distributing the firmware is problematic from a copyright and licensing perspective.

The firmware generated by this project includes binary code from the official Radioddity firmware. The CODEC from the original binary is re-used to avoid intellectual property infringement. Distributing the resulting binary is therefore problematic from a intellectual property law perspective.

# Building
Please see BUILD.md for toolchain and build instructions.

# Credits
Originally conceived by Kai DG4KLU.
Further development by Roger VK3KYY, latterly assisted by Daniel F1RMB, Alex DL4LEX, Colin G4EML and many others.
RD-5R initial development by EW1ADG 

Special thanks to Jason VK7ZJA for his work on the memory map and RF hardware of the GD-77
Also thanks for Ian DJ0HF for his work coordinating the requirements of blind and visually impaired operators.

Thanks also to all the translation contributors including: 

CT4TX, CT1HSN

DG3GSP, DL4LEX

EA3IGM, EA5SW

EA3IGM, EA5SW, EB3AM, EA3BIL

F1CXG, F1RMB

IU4LEG, IZ2EIB

JE4SMQ

OH1E

OK2HAD

ON7LDS

OZ1MAX

PU4RON

SQ7PTE

TA5AYX

# License
This software is licensed under the GPL v2 and is intended for Amateur Radio and educational use only.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.